## Azure Monitor

- Metrics
- Activity logs
- Log Analytics workspace
- Application insights


Activity logs: Control plane activity. Ex:  Vm created destroyed etc.
Platform logs dealing azure subscription level events.
- Provides insights into operations performed externally for azure resources.
- Details  `WRITE` actions for azure resources(PUT,POST and Delete)
- Stored default by 90 days.
- 


# Azure status

https://status.azure.com/en-us/status

## Log Analytics workspace
- Send logs to analytics workspace
- To avoid charges. its better to have resource and workspace in same location.
- Log analytcs workspace.  Installs Microsoft monitor agent automagically.
- 



# Microsoft Antimalware

This is free real time protection that helps identify and remove viruses spyware and other malicous software

to enable this feature on virtual machine you have to install an extension.

on windows server 2016 , windows defender is built in anit malware.


Update Management needs

1. Automation account
2. Log analytics workspace.


Process automation - orchestrate process using graphical runbooks, powershell and python runbooks

configuration management - collect inventory, track changes, and configure the desired state for virtual machines.

Update management - Asses the compliance of virtual machines and also schedule the installation of upfates on virtual machines.

If you add vms in automation account. the extension called 

-  microsoft monitoring enterprise extension is installed on windows VM.
- omsagentforlinux ins installed on linux vms.




# BluePrints
- Defination of the blue print
- Assignment of the blue print
- Publishing of the blue print


ARM Based Templates, Policies, Resource groups, RBAC

To save blueprint defination , We need to have contributor acess to subscription or managment group.

Blueprint locks can only be removed by unassigning the blueprint.

Why we are sending data to azure security center vs  azure sentinel. Both have different workspaces.

# Azure Sentinel

1. DataConnectors
2. inbuilt workbooks to get more insights on the collected data.
3. Workboooks - Data visualization representation of the data collected via connectors.
4. Analytics

    . Scheduled. Can be modified acc to requirements.

    . Fusion. Microsoft owned. Cannot be modified.

    . Rule Templates:  Create rule based on rule template(Like Clearning log. BAsed on Kusto)

    .  Scheduled Query rule and Microsoft incident creation rule.
    .  Hunting: Process of running queries in live stream.

`Playbooks`
This is for incident response.
logic app

On the rules.  Edit automated response and select the logic app created.
